Cluster configuration updates (#2029)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/references/dynamic-configuration.md

- [Frontend Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/frontend/service.go#L176)
- [History Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/history/configs/config.go#L309)
- [Matching Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/matching/config.go#L125)
- [Worker Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/worker/service.go#L193)

Note that setting dynamic configuration is optional.
Change these values only if you need to override the default values to achieve better performance on your Temporal Cluster.
Also, ensure that you test your changes before setting these in production.

To override the default dynamic configuration values, specify your custom values and constraints for the dynamic configuration keys that you want to change in a YAML configuration file.

- Each dyanmic configuration key can have zero or more values.
- Each value can have zero or more constraints.

> - There are only three types of constraints that you can define:

Reviewer: there are others but probably don't worth mentioning.

Author: Updated this section per David's comment.

  - `namespace`: `string`
  - `taskQueueName`: `string`

>   - `taskType`: `int` (`1`:`Workflow`, `2`:`Activity`) A value is selected and returned if all its has exactly the same constraints as the ones specified in query filters (including the number of constraints).

Reviewer: if value has no constraints, then it's considered as the default value and will be used if there's no exact match.

Reviewer: actually, even if number of constraints doesn't match, a value could still be used. e.g. filter is namespace, taskQueue and taskQueueType, if a value only has namespace constraint it can also be selected if there's no better matches.

Check the precedence defined here: https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/378e1e60fbc9761826a7a348ff3f7d1de6284eb0/common/dynamicconfig/collection.go#L476

cc @dnr Please correct me if I am wrong.

Reviewer 2: sorta... the constraints do have the match the _query_ exactly, but the confusing part is that one lookup may use multiple queries. the exact logic is a little involved.

I think somewhere we need to say that each key has a set of allowable constraints. the most common ones are:
- no constraints (it's just global)
- namespace only
- namespace, taskqueuename, tasktype

i.e. it is not the case that any key can be customized by namespace, only some of them can be.

(see comment above, I wrote out how I think it should be explained)

| Dynamic configuration key              | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Default value |
| -------------------------------------- | ---- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Frontend                               |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               |
| `frontend.rps`                         | Int  | Rate limit per second. This value applies to each Frontend service host.                                                                                                                                                         | 2400          |

> | `frontend.namespaceRPS`                | Int  | Rate limit per second applied at each Namespace level.                                                                                                                                                                           | 2400          |

Reviewer: I would also include 
```
	// FrontendMaxNamespaceCountPerInstance limits concurrent task queue polls per namespace per instance
	FrontendMaxNamespaceCountPerInstance = "frontend.namespaceCount"
```

Author: added

| `frontend.globalNamespaceRPS`          | Int  | Namespace rate limit per second applied globally on the entire cluster. The limit is evenly distributed among available Frontend service instances. If this is set, it overrides the per-instance limit (frontend.namespaceRPS). | 0             |
| `internal-frontend.globalNamespaceRPS` | Int  | Namespace rate limit per second across all internal-frontends.                                                                                                                                                                   | 0             |
| History                                |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               |
| `history.rps`                          | Int  | Request rate per second for each history host.                                                                                                                                                                                   | 3000          |

> | `history.archiveRequestRPS`            | Int  | ArchiveRequestRPS is the rate limit on the number of archive request per second,                                                                                                                                                 | 300           |

Author: ```suggestion
| `history.archiveRequestRPS`            | Int  | Rate limit on the number of archive request per second.                                                                                                                                              | 300           |
```

> | `history.archiveRequestRPS`            | Int  | Rate limit on the number of archive request per second.                                                                                                                                                                          | 300           |

Reviewer: plz remove this config. Starting from 1.20 new archival implementation (which is used by default) won't use this config.

Author: removed

| Matching                               |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |               |

> | `matching.rps`                         | Int  | MatchingRPS is request rate per second for each matching host                                                                                                                                                                    | 1200          |

Author: ```suggestion
| `matching.rps`                         | Int  | Request rate per second for each matching host                                                                                                                                                                    | 1200          |
```

| Dynamic configuration key            | Type                          | Description                                                                                                                   | Default value                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `history.defaultActivityRetryPolicy` | Map (key-value pair elements) | Out-of-the-box server configuration for an activity retry policy when it is not explicitly set for the Activity in your code. | [Default values for retry Policy](/retry-policies#default-values-for-retry-policy) |
| `history.defaultWorkflowRetryPolicy` | Map (key-value pair elements) | Out-of-box Retry Policy for unset fields where the user has set an explicit `RetryPolicy`, but not specified all the fields   | [Default values for retry Policy](/retry-policies#default-values-for-retry-policy) |

### Size limit settings

> The Persistence database in the Cluster has default size limits set for optimal performance. The dynamic configuraiton keys relating to some of these are listed below.

Author: ```suggestion
The Persistence database in the Cluster has default size limits set for optimal performance. The dynamic configuration keys relating to some of these are listed below.
```

The default values on these keys have been set based on extensive testing. While these values can be changed, ensure that you are provisioning enough database resources to handle the changed values.

| Dynamic configuration key               | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default value             |
| --------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `limit.maxIDLength`                     | Int  | Length limit for various IDs, including: `Namespace`, `TaskQueue`, `WorkflowID`, `ActivityID`, `TimerID`, `WorkflowType`, `ActivityType`, `SignalName`, `MarkerName`, `ErrorReason`/`FailureReason`/`CancelCause`, `Identity`, `RequestID` | 1000                      |

> | `system.transactionSizeLimit`           | Int  | Largest allowed transaction size to the Persistence database.                                                                                                                                                                              | 4 MB (`4 * 1024 * 1024`)  |

Reviewer: This config is confusing, even for server team... 
It controls the maximum size of each history event batch. Usually people should not touch it.

Author: Should I remove it? Or maybe I can add some more detail explaining when to change this value (if at all) and what to consider before doing so?

Reviewer: I would remove it, the value should never be changed unless something really bad happens. We have this [fix](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/pull/4296) released, which addresses the only case we have in cloud where we need to tune this value for mitigation.

Author: removed

> | `system.transactionSizeLimit`           | Int  | Largest allowed transaction size to the Persistence database.                                                                                                                                                                              | 4 MB (`4 \* 1024 \* 1024`) |

Author: ```suggestion
| `system.transactionSizeLimit`           | Int  | Largest allowed transaction size to the Persistence database.                                                                                                                                                                              | 4 MB (`4 * 1024 * 1024`) |
```

> | `limit.blobSize.warn`                   | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an event when a warning is thrown in the server logs.                                                                                                                                                     | 512 KB (`512 \* 1024`)     |

Author: ```suggestion
| `limit.blobSize.warn`                   | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an event when a warning is thrown in the server logs.                                                                                                                                                     | 512 KB (`512 * 1024`)     |
```

> | `limit.blobSize.error`                  | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an event when an error occurs in the transaction.                                                                                                                                                         | 2 MB (`2 \* 1024 \* 1024`) |

Author: ```suggestion
| `limit.blobSize.error`                  | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an event when an error occurs in the transaction.                                                                                                                                                         | 2 MB (`2 * 1024 * 1024`) |
```

> | `limit.historySize.warn`                | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                                 | 10 MB (`50\*1024\*1024`)   |

Author: ```suggestion
| `limit.historySize.warn`                | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                                 | 10 MB (`50*1024*1024`)   |
```

> | `limit.historySize.error`               | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed size.                                                                                                                                              | 50 MB (`50\*1024\*1024`)   |

Author: ```suggestion
| `limit.historySize.error`               | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed size.                                                                                                                                              | 50 MB (`50*1024*1024`)   |
```

> | `limit.historyCount.warn`               | Int  | Limit, in count, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                               | 10,240 events (`10\*1024`) |

Author: ```suggestion
| `limit.historyCount.warn`               | Int  | Limit, in count, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                               | 10,240 events (`10*1024`) |
```

> | `limit.historyCount.error`              | Int  | Limit, in count, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed number of Events.                                                                                                                                | 51200 events (`50\*1024`)  |

Author: ```suggestion
| `limit.historyCount.error`              | Int  | Limit, in count, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed number of Events.                                                                                                                                | 51200 events (`50*1024`)  |
```

| `limit.numPendingActivities.error`      | Int  | Maximum number of pending Activities that a Workflow Execution can have before the `ScheduleActivityTask` fails with an error.                                                                                                             | 50000                     |
| `limit.numPendingSignals.error`         | Int  | Maximum number of pending Signals that a Workflow Execution can have before the `SignalExternalWorkflowExecution` commands from this Workflow fail with an error.                                                                          | 50000                     |
| `limit.numPendingCancelRequests.error`  | Int  | Maximum number of pending requests to cancel other Workflows that a Workflow Execution can have before the `RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecution` commands fail with an error.                                                           | 50000                     |

> | `limit.numPendingChildExecutions.error` | Int  | Maximum number of pending Child Workflows that a Workflow Execution can have before the `StartChildWorkflowExecution` commands fail with an error.                                                                                         | 50000                     |

Reviewer: We are going to change those default values in 1.21 release to match cloud.
https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/pull/4326

Author: added the updated value in a comment here and in the platform limits sheet. Will remove older values when v1.21 is released.

Ensure that you check server releases notes for any changes to these keys and values.

To check the default values set for a dynamic configuration key, check the following links:

- [Frontend Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/frontend/service.go#L176)
- [History Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/history/configs/config.go#L309)
- [Matching Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/matching/config.go#L125)
- [Worker Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/worker/service.go#L193)

Note that setting dynamic configuration is optional.
Change these values only if you need to override the default values to achieve better performance on your Temporal Cluster.
Also, ensure that you test your changes before setting these in production.

To override the default dynamic configuration values, specify your custom values and constraints for the dynamic configuration keys that you want to change in a YAML configuration file.

> - Each dyanmic configuration key can have zero or more values.

Reviewer 2: but I don't think this is really the best way to introduce it. it's technically correct without actually explaining what's going on. I'd start more like:

Some dynamic config keys are global for the process, while others can be customized on a namespace or even task queue level. For global values, you can set them like this:

```yaml
keyName:
  - value: "my-value"
```

For keys that can be customized by namespace, you can specify multiple values for different namespaces, in addition to one default value that applies for all namespaces not mentioned:

```yaml
keyName:
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1"}
    value: "value-for-namespace1"
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}
    value: "value-for-namespace2"
  - constraints: {}
    value: "value-for-all-the-rest"
```

For keys that can be customized by task queue, you can do the same but also use constraints `taskQueueName` and `taskType`:

```yaml
keyName:
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "tq"}  # both workflow and activity queues
    value: 44
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "other-tq", taskType: "Activity"}
    value: 33
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}  # all task queues in namespace2
    value: 22
  - constraints: {}  # all other task queues in namespace1 and all other namespaces
    value: 11
```

Note that values are not evaluated from first to last, even though the examples look like that, instead, the most specific constrained value wins (with a few exceptions that aren't important for normal operation).

> - Each dyanmic configuration key can have zero or more values.

Author: This is great, thank you! Added these details in the section.

- Each value can have zero or more constraints.
- There are only three types of constraints that you can define:
  - `namespace`: `string`
  - `taskQueueName`: `string`

>   - `taskType`: `int` (`1`:`Workflow`, `2`:`Activity`) A value is selected and returned if all its has exactly the same constraints as the ones specified in query filters (including the number of constraints).

Reviewer 2: First, say that this is a string which must be exactly `Workflow` or `Activity`. (The int values 1/2 are supported for backwards compatibility)

Author: Could you tell me from which version we change 1/2 to `Workflow` and `Activity`? Would help to mention the detail here.

## Format

To override the default dynamic configuration values, specify your custom values and constraints for the dynamic configuration keys that you want to change in a YAML configuration file.
Use the following format when creating your dynamic configuration file.

```yaml
testGetBoolPropertyKey:
  - value: false
  - value: true
    constraints:
      namespace: "your-namespace"
  - value: false
    constraints:
      namespace: "your-other-namespace"
testGetDurationPropertyKey:
  - value: "1m"
    constraints:
      namespace: "your-namespace"
      taskQueueName: "longIdleTimeTaskqueue"
testGetFloat64PropertyKey:
  - value: 12.0
    constraints:
      namespace: "your-namespace"
testGetMapPropertyKey:
  - value:
      key1: 1
      key2: "value 2"
      key3:
        - false
        - key4: true
          key5: 2.0
```

### Constraints

You can define constraints on some dynamic configuration keys to set specific values that apply on a Namespace or Task Queue level.
Not defining constraints on a dynamic configuration key sets the values globally across the Cluster.

- To set global values for the configuration key with no constraints, use:

  ```yaml

>   frontend.globalNamespaceRPS: # Namespace rate limit per second applied globally on the entire Cluster.
>     - value: 5000 # There is no default limit. If set, this value overrides frontend.namespacerps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  frontend.globalNamespaceRPS: # Total per-Namespace RPC rate limit across the Cluster
    - value: 5000
```
So, one confusing thing here is that "global" in the sentence above this and "global" in this key name mean two totally different things. The first is "not specific to any namespace or task queue" and the second is "total across all frontend instances".

So I would avoid using "global" in the comment describing "globalNamespaceRPS" because it's potentially confusing. You can just say "across the cluster".

I'd also just remove the comment about the default, I don't think it adds much here. At least remove the bit about "if set, overrides ..." because we're documenting the dynamic config system here, not specific keys.

Author: updated

  ```

- For keys that can be customized at Namespace level, you can specify multiple values for different Namespaces in addition to one default value that applies globally to all Namespaces.
  To set values at a Namespace level, use `namespace` (String) as shown in the following example.

  ```yaml
  frontend.rps: # Rate limit on the number of requests sent to the Frontend host.
    - constraints: {} # Sets default value that applies to all Namespaces
      value: 2000 # The default value for this key on the Frontend host is 3000.

>   - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1"} # Sets value for "namespace1" Namespace

Reviewer 2: indentation here is wrong

      value: 4000
    - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}
      value: 1000
  ```

- For keys that can be customized at a Task Queue level, you can specify Task Queue name and Task type in addition to Namespace.

>   To set values at a Task Queue level, use `taskqueueName` (String) with `taskType` (optional; supported values: `Workflow` and `Activity`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  To set values at a Task Queue level, use `taskQueueName` (String) with `taskType` (optional; supported values: `Workflow` and `Activity`).
```

(actually they're case insensitive but taskQueueName reads better)

    value: 16
  ```

<!-- Note that the values set with most constraints take priority over values that are set with fewer constraints, regardless of the order in which they are set in the dynamic configuration key. -->

For more examples on how dynamic configuration is set, see:

- [docker-compose](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose/tree/main/dynamicconfig)
- [samples-server](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-server/blob/main/tls/config/dynamicconfig/development.yaml)

## Commonly used dynamic configuration keys

The following table lists commonly used dynamic configuration keys that can be used for rate limiting requests to the Temporal Cluster.

Note that the dynamic configuration key setting is optional. If you choose to update these values for your Temporal Cluster, ensure that you are provisioning enough resources to handle the load.

All values listed here are for Temporal server v1.20 <!--Update to 1.21 when released-->.
Check [server release notes](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/releases) to verify any potential breaking changes when upgrading your versions.

### Service-level RPS limits

> The Rate Per Second (RPS) dynamic configuration keys set the rate at which requests can be made to each service in your Cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Requests Per Second (RPS) dynamic configuration keys set the rate at which requests can be made to each service in your Cluster.
```

"rate" is already "something per second" (or unit of time), a "rate per second" would be like an acceleration :)

Author: lol, corrected (ty)

> When scaling your services, tune the RPS to test your workload and set acceptable provisioning benchmarks. Exceeding these limits will result in `ResourceExhaustedError`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When scaling your services, tune the RPS to test your workload and set acceptable provisioning benchmarks.
Exceeding these limits results in `ResourceExhaustedError`.
```

| Dynamic configuration key              | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Default value |
| -------------------------------------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Frontend                               |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |               |

> | `frontend.rps`                         | Int  | Rate limit per second on the number of requests send to each Frontend service host.                                                                                                                                                | 2400          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `frontend.rps`                         | Int  | Rate limit (requests/second) for requests accepted by each Frontend service host.                                                                                                                                                | 2400          |
```
and similar changes on the others

i.e. the dynamic config doesn't control requests _sent_ to a frontend, that's determined by whatever is sending it traffic. the config controls how many the frontend _accepts_ (the rest get rejected with a "resource exhausted" error)

Reviewer 3: Also: In "Frontend service", capitalize "service".

Author: ty; correcting this across

| `frontend.namespaceRPS`                | Int  | Rate limit per second applied for each Namespace.                                                                                                                                                                                  | 2400          |

> | `frontend.namespaceCount`              | Int  | Rate limit on concurrent Task Queue polls per Namespace per instance.                                                                                                                                                              | 1200          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `frontend.namespaceCount`              | Int  | Limit on concurrent Task Queue polls per Namespace per instance.                                                                                                                                                              | 1200          |
```
there's no rate here, it's a count

Author: corrected

| `frontend.globalNamespaceRPS`          | Int  | Namespace rate limit per second applied globally on the entire Cluster. The limit is evenly distributed among available Frontend service instances. If this is set, it overrides the per-instance limit (`frontend.namespaceRPS`). | 0             |

> | `internal-frontend.globalNamespaceRPS` | Int  | Namespace rate limit per second across all internal-frontends.                                                                                                                                                                     | 0             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `internal-frontend.globalNamespaceRPS` | Int  | Namespace rate limit across all internal-frontend instances.                                                                                                                                                                     | 0             |
```

| `history.rps`                          | Int  | Request rate per second for each History host.                                                                                                                                                                                     | 3000          |
| Matching                               |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |               |
| `matching.rps`                         | Int  | Request rate per second for each Matching host                                                                                                                                                                                     | 1200          |
| `matching.numTaskqueueReadPartitions`  | Int  | Number of read partitions for a Task Queue. Must be set with `matching.numTaskqueueWritePartitions`.                                                                                                                               | 4             |

> | `matching.numTaskqueueWritePartitions` | Int  | Number of write partitions for a Task Queue.                                                                                                                                                                                       | 4             |

Reviewer: note those two configs must be updated in pair and follow a certain order to prevent impact to running workflows
When increasing # of partitions, increase reader partitions first, then write partitions
When decreasing, do it in reverse order and make sure to wait long enough before reducing # of read partitions

Author: Yeah; I had this [explanation here but removed it ](https://github.com/temporalio/documentation/pull/2029/files/18f50fdced2133939f68ec82f12b6dc343b2ee54..1c715efb4feb5c4da6293a5a48c4df76c373b4a1#r1221959428) because this doc is a reference. I can explain this better in the next round of updates as I build out the OSS Cluster deployment guide.

> ### QPS limits for Persistence database

Reviewer 3: Global question: Instead of  "Persistence database" and "Persistence store database," should we use "Persistence store" consistently throughout?

Author: Yep; changed to Persistence store across.

The Queries Per Second (QPS) dynamic configuration keys set the maximum number of queries a service can make per second to the Persistence store.

> Persistence rate limits are evaluated synchronously. Adjust these keys according to your database capacity and workload.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Persistence rate limits are evaluated synchronously.
Adjust these keys according to your database capacity and workload.
```

> If the number of queries made to the Persistence database is more than what the dynamic configuration value set, you will see latencies and timeouts on your tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the number of queries made to the Persistence database exceeds the dynamic configuration value, you will see latencies and timeouts on your tasks.
```

| Dynamic configuration key                 | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Default value           |
| ----------------------------------------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Frontend                                  |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                         |

> | `frontend.persistenceMaxQPS`              | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Frontend service host can query the Persistence store database.                                                                                                                                | 2000 queries per second |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `frontend.persistenceMaxQPS`              | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Frontend Service host can query the Persistence store database.                                                                                                                                | 2000 |
```

> | `frontend.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum queries per second that each Namespace on Frontend service host can query the Persistence store database. <br /> If the value set for this config is less or equal to 0, the value set for  `PersistenceMaxQS` will apply. | 0                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `frontend.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum queries per second that each Namespace on the Frontend Service host can query the Persistence store database. <br /> If this value is less or equal to 0, the value set for `PersistenceMaxQS` applies. | 0                       |
```

| `history.persistenceMaxQPS`               | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the History host can query the Persistence store database.                                                                                                                                         | 9000                    |
| `history.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`      | Int  | Maximum queries per second that each Namespace on History host can query the Persistence store database. <br /> If the value set for this config is less or equal to 0, the value set for  `PersistenceMaxQS` will apply.          | 0                       |
| Matching                                  |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                         |

> | `matching.persistenceMaxQPS`              | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Matching service host can query the Persistence store database.                                                                                                                                | 9000                    |
> | `matching.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Matching host can query the Persistence store database for each Namespace. <br /> If the value set for this config is less or equal to 0, the value set for  `PersistenceMaxQS` will apply.    | 0                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `matching.persistenceMaxQPS`              | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Matching Service host can query the Persistence store database.                                                                                                                                | 9000                    |
| `matching.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Matching Service host can query the Persistence store database for each Namespace. <br /> If this value is less or equal to 0, the value set for `PersistenceMaxQS` applies.    | 0                       |
```

| Worker                                    |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                         |

> | `worker.persistenceMaxQPS`                | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Worker service host can query the Persistence store database.                                                                                                                                  | 100                     |
> | `worker.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`       | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Worker host can query the Persistence store database for each Namespace. <br /> If the value set for this config is less or equal to 0, the value set for  `PersistenceMaxQS` will apply.      | 0                       |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `worker.persistenceMaxQPS`                | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Worker Service host can query the Persistence store database.                                                                                                                                  | 100                     |
| `worker.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`       | Int  | Maximum queries per second that the Worker Service host can query the Persistence store database for each Namespace. <br /> If this value is less or equal to 0, the value set for `PersistenceMaxQS` applies.      | 0                       |
```

| Visibility                                |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                         |
| `system.visibilityPersistenceMaxReadQPS`  | Int  | Maximum queries per second that Visibility database be queried for read operations.                                                                                                                                                | 9000                    |
| `system.visibilityPersistenceMaxWriteQPS` | Int  | Maximum queries per second that Visibility database be queried for write operations.                                                                                                                                               | 9000                    |

#### Activity and Workflow default policy setting

You can define default values for Activity and Workflow [Retry Policies](/concepts/what-is-a-retry-policy) at the Cluster level with the following dynamic configuration keys.

> Th, the default values will apply. Also, setting custom retry polici

Reviewer 3: Something's missing in this line...

Author: thanks for catching this! Must've snuck in while I was juggling pages

| Dynamic configuration key            | Type                          | Description                                                                                                                   | Default value                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `history.defaultActivityRetryPolicy` | Map (key-value pair elements) | Out-of-the-box server configuration for an activity retry policy when it is not explicitly set for the Activity in your code. | [Default values for retry Policy](/retry-policies#default-values-for-retry-policy) |
| `history.defaultWorkflowRetryPolicy` | Map (key-value pair elements) | Out-of-box Retry Policy for unset fields where the user has set an explicit `RetryPolicy`, but not specified all the fields.  | [Default values for retry Policy](/retry-policies#default-values-for-retry-policy) |

### Size limit settings

> The Persistence database in the Cluster has default size limits set for optimal performance. The dynamic configuration keys relating to some of these are listed below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Persistence database in the Cluster has default size limits set for optimal performance.
The dynamic configuration keys relating to some of these are listed in the following table.
```

> The default values on these keys have been set based on extensive testing. While these values can be changed, ensure that you are provisioning enough database resources to handle the changed values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default values on these keys are based on extensive testing.
You can change these values, but ensure that you are provisioning enough database resources to handle the changed values.
```

For details on platform limits, see the [Temporal Platform limits sheet](/kb/temporal-platform-limits-sheet).

| Dynamic configuration key               | Type | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default value               |
| --------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- |

> | `limit.maxIDLength`                     | Int  | Length limit for various IDs, including: `Namespace`, `TaskQueue`, `WorkflowID`, `ActivityID`, `TimerID`, `WorkflowType`, `ActivityType`, `SignalName`, `MarkerName`, `ErrorReason`/`FailureReason`/`CancelCause`, `Identity`, `RequestID` | 1000                        |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `limit.maxIDLength`                     | Int  | Length limit for various IDs, including `Namespace`, `TaskQueue`, `WorkflowID`, `ActivityID`, `TimerID`, `WorkflowType`, `ActivityType`, `SignalName`, `MarkerName`, `ErrorReason`/`FailureReason`/`CancelCause`, `Identity`, and `RequestID`. | 1000                        |
```

> | `system.transactionSizeLimit`           | Int  | Largest allowed size for each history event batch persisted in the Persistence store.                                                                                                                                                      | 4 MB (`4 * 1024 * 1024`)    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `system.transactionSizeLimit`           | Int  | Largest allowed size for each History Event batch persisted in the Persistence store.                                                                                                                                                      | 4 MB (4 × 1024 × 1024)    |
```

> | `limit.blobSize.warn`                   | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an event when a warning is thrown in the server logs.                                                                                                                                                     | 512 KB (`512 * 1024`)       |
> | `limit.blobSize.error`                  | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an event when an error occurs in the transaction.                                                                                                                                                         | 2 MB (`2 * 1024 * 1024`)    |
> | `limit.historySize.warn`                | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                                 | 10 MB (`50*1024*1024`)      |
> | `limit.historySize.error`               | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed size.                                                                                                                                              | 50 MB (`50*1024*1024`)      |
> | `limit.historyCount.warn`               | Int  | Limit, in count, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                               | 10,240 events (`10*1024`)   |
> | `limit.historyCount.error`              | Int  | Limit, in count, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed number of Events.                                                                                                                                | 51200 events (`50*1024`)    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `limit.blobSize.warn`                   | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an Event when a warning is thrown in the server logs.                                                                                                                                                     | 512 KB (512 × 1024)       |
| `limit.blobSize.error`                  | Int  | Limit, in MBs, for BLOBs size in an Event when an error occurs in the transaction.                                                                                                                                                         | 2 MB (2 × 1024 × 1024)    |
| `limit.historySize.warn`                | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                                 | 10 MB (10 × 1024 × 1024)      |
| `limit.historySize.error`               | Int  | Limit, in MBs, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed size.                                                                                                                                              | 50 MB (50 × 1024 × 1024)      |
| `limit.historyCount.warn`               | Int  | Limit, in count, at which a warning is thrown for the Workflow Execution Event History size.                                                                                                                                               | 10,240 Events   |
| `limit.historyCount.error`              | Int  | Limit, in count, at which an error occurs in the Workflow Execution for exceeding allowed number of Events.                                                                                                                                | 51,200 events    |
```

| `frontend.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that each Namespace on the Frontend Service host can send to the Persistence store. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, the value set for `frontend.persistenceMaxQS` will apply. | 0             |
| History                                   |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |               |
| `history.persistenceMaxQPS`               | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that the History host can send to the Persistence store.                                                                                                                                                          | 9000          |

> | `history.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`      | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second for each Namespace that the History host can send to the Persistence store. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, then the value set for `history.persistenceMaxQS` will apply.     | 0             |

Author: ```suggestion
| `history.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`      | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second for each Namespace that the History host can send to the Persistence store. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, then the value set for `history.persistenceMaxQPS` will apply.     | 0             |
```

| Matching                                  |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |               |
| `matching.persistenceMaxQPS`              | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that the Matching Service host can send to the Persistence store.                                                                                                                                                 | 9000          |

> | `matching.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that the Matching host can send to the Persistence store for each Namespace. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, the value set for `matching.persistenceMaxQS` will apply.        | 0             |

Author: ```suggestion
| `matching.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that the Matching host can send to the Persistence store for each Namespace. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, the value set for `matching.persistenceMaxQPS` will apply.        | 0             |
```

| Worker                                    |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |               |
| `worker.persistenceMaxQPS`                | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that the Worker Service host can send to the Persistence store.                                                                                                                                                   | 100           |

> | `worker.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`       | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that the Worker host can send to the Persistence store for each Namespace. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, the value set for `worker.persistenceMaxQS` will apply.            | 0             |

Author: ```suggestion
| `worker.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`       | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that the Worker host can send to the Persistence store for each Namespace. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, the value set for `worker.persistenceMaxQPS` will apply.            | 0             |
```

Ensure that you check server releases notes for any changes to these keys and values.

To check the default values set for a dynamic configuration key, check the following links:

- [Frontend Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/frontend/service.go#L176)
- [History Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/history/configs/config.go#L309)
- [Matching Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/matching/config.go#L125)
- [Worker Service](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/5783e781504d8ffac59f9848b830868f3139b980/service/worker/service.go#L193)

Note that setting dynamic configuration is optional.
Change these values only if you need to override the default values to achieve better performance on your Temporal Cluster.
Also, ensure that you test your changes before setting these in production.

## Format

To override the default dynamic configuration values, specify your custom values and constraints for the dynamic configuration keys that you want to change in a YAML configuration file.

> Use the following format when creating your dynamic configuration file.

Reviewer 2: this whole section is kind of redundant with the following section now. maybe just get rid of it? or change it to a very high-level statement talking about yaml

Author: The idea was to give a quick reference handles for an overview on the format of a config file (#format) and details of defining the keys in your config file (#constraints).

Author: Does this read clearer? https://temporal-documentation-kcq4a95rs.preview.thundergun.io/references/dynamic-configuration#format

Some dynamic configuration keys are set globally, and others can be customized on a Namespace or Task Queue level.

- To set global values for the configuration key with no constraints, use:

  ```yaml
  keyName:
    - value: "my-value"
  ```

- For keys that can be customized at Namespace level, you can specify multiple values for different Namespaces in addition to one default value that applies globally to all Namespaces.
  To set values at a Namespace level, use `namespace` (String) as shown in the following example.

  ```yaml
  keyName:
    - constraints: {} # Sets default value that applies to all Namespaces
      value: "value-for-all-the-rest"
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1"} # Sets value for "namespace1" Namespace
      value: "value-for-namespace1"
    - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}
      value: "value-for-namespace2"
  ```

- For keys that can be customized at a Task Queue level, you can specify Task Queue name and Task type in addition to Namespace.
  To set values at a Task Queue level, use `taskqueueName` (String) with `taskType` (optional; supported values: `Workflow` and `Activity`), as shown in the following exmaple.

  ```yaml
  keyName:

>   - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "tq"}  #Applies to both Workflow and Activity tasks on the "tq" Task Queue.

Reviewer 2: be consistent with space after `#`

>   - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "tq"}  #Applies to both Workflow and Activity tasks on the "tq" Task Queue.

Reviewer 2: I think we should say the config applies to the task queue, not to the tasks

Author: updated to 
` Applies to the "tq" Task Queue for both Workflows and Activities.`
and
`Applies to the "other_tq" Task Queue for Activities specifically.`

    value: 44
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "other-tq", taskType: "Activity"} #Applies to Activity tasks on the "other_tq" Task Queue.
    value: 33
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}  #Applies to all task queues in "namespace2".
    value: 22
  - constraints: {}  # Applies to all other task queues in "namespace1" and all other Namespaces.
    value: 11
  ```

> Note that these values are not applied first to last; values set on specific constraints override default values defined for that configuration key.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this makes sense. The point is: for a specific key, "more constrained" values take priority over "less constrained", and also of course over the default, regardless of the order in the yaml file.

As written, it just says constrained values override the default value, which doesn't say anything about the priority among multiple constrained values.

Author: yeah; it was a little wonky. Have updated to 
`Note that the values set with most constraints take priority over values that are set with fewer constraints, regardless of the order in which they are set in the dynamic configuration key.` > is this clearer?

> For example to override the default maximum queries per second made to the Persistence database from the Frontend Service, add the following to your dynamic configuration file.

Reviewer 2: I think we need a new heading here or something.. this makes it sound like it's an example of constraints, which it sort of is but it's more just an example of the format. it's also kind of redundant with the section above, just using real keys and values. Maybe we should just change the ones above to use real keys/values?

Author: yep; changing the prev example to use real keys.

### Constraints

You can define constraints on some dynamic configuration keys to set specific values that apply on a Namespace or Task Queue level.
Not defining constraints on a dynamic configuration key sets the values globally across the Cluster.

- To set global values for the configuration key with no constraints, use:

  ```yaml
  history.rps: # Rate limit on the number of requests made per second to each History service host.
    - value: 5000 # The default value for this is 3000.
  ```

- For keys that can be customized at Namespace level, you can specify multiple values for different Namespaces in addition to one default value that applies globally to all Namespaces.
  To set values at a Namespace level, use `namespace` (String) as shown in the following example.

  ```yaml

>   frontend.rps: # Rate limit on the number of requests sent to the Frontend host.

Reviewer 2: this key is global, it can't be customized per namespace. maybe use `frontend.globalNamespaceRPS`

Author: Thanks for clarifying this; wasn't sure if I should use the global namespace one. updated!

Reviewer 2: this wasn't updated?

Reviewer 2: this still wasn't changed. `frontend.rps` is not a key that can be customized by namespace

Author: I keep missing this update! Sorry about that. Can I use `frontend.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS` instead (because I've already used the `frontend.globalNamespaceRPS` in the prev example.)

Reviewer 2: Yes, that one accepts namespace constraints

Author: updated the example to use:

  ```yaml
  frontend.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS: # Rate limit on the number of queries the Frontend sends to the Persistence store.
    - constraints: {} # Sets default value that applies to all Namespaces
      value: 2000 # The default value for this key is 0.
    - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1"} # Sets limit on number of queries that can be sent from "namespace1" Namespace to the Persistence store.
      value: 4000
    - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}
      value: 1000
  ```

    - constraints: {} # Sets default value that applies to all Namespaces

>       value: 2000 # The defaul value for this key on the history host is 3000.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      value: 2000 # The default value for this key on the history host is 3000.
```
I think you mean frontend?

  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1"} # Sets value for "namespace1" Namespace

>       value: "4000"

Reviewer 2: pretty sure this takes int values

Author: lol yeah! missed removing the quotes here. updated.

    - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}
      value: "1000"
  ```

- For keys that can be customized at a Task Queue level, you can specify Task Queue name and Task type in addition to Namespace.
  To set values at a Task Queue level, use `taskqueueName` (String) with `taskType` (optional; supported values: `Workflow` and `Activity`).

  For example to override the default maximum queries per second made to the Persistence database from the Frontend Service, add the following to your dynamic configuration file.

  ```yaml

>   frontend.persistenceMaxQPS:

Reviewer 2: this key is a global, it can't be customized by namespace or task queue. maybe use `matching.numTaskqueueReadPartitions` (default 4, set to 10 or 20)

Author: Updated!

  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "tq"}  # Applies to the "tq" Task Queue for both Workflows and Activities.
    value: 3500 # The default value for this key on the Frontend Service is 2400.
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "other-tq", taskType: "Activity"} # Applies to the "other_tq" Task Queue for Activities specifically.
    value: 4000 
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}  # Applies to all task queues in "namespace2".
    value: 1500
  - constraints: {}  # Applies to all other task queues in "namespace1" and all other Namespaces.
    value: 3000
  ```

> Note that the values set with most constraints take priority over values that are set with fewer constraints, regardless of the order in which they are set in the dynamic configuration key.

Reviewer 2: this isn't technically correct but it's probably close enough for this purpose. (that's why I wrote "more constrained" in quotes... the exact logic is probably too complicated and boring to explain)

Author: Would it be better if I removed this point?

- To set global values for the configuration key with no constraints, use:

  ```yaml

>   frontend.globalNamespaceRPS: # Rate limit on the number of requests made per second to each History service host.

Reviewer 2: comment is wrong now

Author: updated (also checked other examples)

>     - value: 5000 # The default value for this is 2400.

Reviewer 2: that key has no default

Author: Yeah; I put that default there because if it is not set, I assumed the `frontend.namespacerps` limit would apply (https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/a51abcfffb28cda76049588a81f3518d0a3e4651/common/dynamicconfig/constants.go#L232-L235).
So if there is a global namespace configured, but this value is not set, will it allow unlimited requests?

Reviewer 2: Yes, basically if frontend.globalNamespaceRPS isn't set then frontend.namespaceRPS will take effect. But I think it's misleading to say that the default for frontend.globalNamespaceRPS is 2400: the two keys have different meanings. The 2400 is per instance, the value for frontend.globalNamespaceRPS is total for all instances

Author: got it; I've removed the comment. But this is an important detail that I think is best covered in the Cluster deployment and monitoring. Will keep it in mind.

  ```yaml
  frontend.rps: # Rate limit on the number of requests sent to the Frontend host.
    - constraints: {} # Sets default value that applies to all Namespaces
      value: 2000 # The default value for this key on the Frontend host is 3000.
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1"} # Sets value for "namespace1" Namespace
      value: 4000
    - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}
      value: 1000
  ```

- For keys that can be customized at a Task Queue level, you can specify Task Queue name and Task type in addition to Namespace.
  To set values at a Task Queue level, use `taskqueueName` (String) with `taskType` (optional; supported values: `Workflow` and `Activity`).

>   For example if you have Workers creating a large number of Workflow and Activity tasks per second, you can add more partitions to your Task Queues (default is 4) to accomodate the high number of polls.

Reviewer 2: I'd say Workflows create tasks, not Workers. (Workers process tasks)

Also I'd say "handle the high throughput of tasks", not polls

Author: yeah; updated to: 
`For example if you have Workflow Executions creating a large number of Workflow and Activity tasks per second, you can add more partitions to your Task Queues (default is 4) to handle the high throughput of tasks.`

  To do this, add the following to your dynamic configuration file.

  ```yaml

>   matching.numTaskqueueReadPartitions:

Reviewer 2: sorry, maybe this was a bad example after all... if you set this you also have to set `matching.numTaskqueueWritePartitions` to the same value. so the example will be twice as long :(

Author: I don't mind a longer example tbh (and it isn't terribly long). Added `matching.numTaskqueueWritePartitions` to the example with comments and a preceding note: "Note that if changing the number of partitions, you must set the same count for both read and write operations on Task Queues."

  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "tq"}  # Applies to the "tq" Task Queue for both Workflows and Activities.
    value: 8 # The default value for this key is 4. Task Queues that need to support high traffic require higher number of partitions. Set these values in accordance to your poller count. 
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace1", taskQueueName: "other-tq", taskType: "Activity"} # Applies to the "other_tq" Task Queue for Activities specifically.
    value: 20 
  - constraints: {namespace: "namespace2"}  # Applies to all task queues in "namespace2".
    value: 10
  - constraints: {}  # Applies to all other task queues in "namespace1" and all other Namespaces.
    value: 16
  ```

> <!-- Note that the values set with most constraints take priority over values that are set with fewer constraints, regardless of the order in which they are set in the dynamic configuration key. -->

Reviewer 2: yeah, maybe it's okay to leave it out. people can ask through support if they get really confused

| `history.rps`                          | Int  | Request rate per second for each History host.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 3000          |
| Matching                               |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |               |
| `matching.rps`                         | Int  | Request rate per second for each Matching host                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 1200          |

> | `matching.numTaskqueueWritePartitions` | Int  | Number of read partitions for a Task Queue. Note that to increase the number of partitions (on a running cluster), first increase `numTaskqueueReadPartitions` and then `numTaskqueueWritePartitions`. To decrease the number of partitions, first decrease `numTaskqueueWritePartitions` and then decrease `numTaskqueueReadPartitions`.  | 4             |

Reviewer 2: key is wrong

Author: corrected!

> | `matching.numTaskqueueWritePartitions` | Int  | Number of write partitions for a Task Queue. Note that to increase the number of partitions (on a running cluster), first increase `numTaskqueueReadPartitions` and then `numTaskqueueWritePartitions`. To decrease the number of partitions, first decrease `numTaskqueueWritePartitions` and then decrease `numTaskqueueReadPartitions`. | 4             |

Reviewer 2: don't duplicate the instructions twice? also, I'm not sure if we should include those instructions here at all? they're subtly wrong: you have to decrease write partitions _and then_ make sure all spooled tasks are processed

Author: yeh; I think these should be better explained and this is not the place for it.

| ----------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| Frontend                                  |      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |               |
| `frontend.persistenceMaxQPS`              | Int  | Maximum number queries per second that the Frontend Service host can send to the Persistence store.                                                                                                                                                    | 2000          |

> | `frontend.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that each Namespace on the Frontend Service host can send to the Persistence store. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, the value set for `frontend.persistenceMaxQS` will apply. | 0             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `frontend.persistenceNamespaceMaxQPS`     | Int  | Maximum number of queries per second that each Namespace on the Frontend Service host can send to the Persistence store. <br /> If the value set for this config is less than or equal to 0, the value set for `frontend.persistenceMaxQPS` will apply. | 0             |
```
(and below)
